---
layout: post
title:  "The 88th Academy Awards"
date:   2016-02-29
categories: film oscars movies awards culture
---
Or, “How I Learned to Stop Caring and Live With The Oscars”…

Another year in film has come and gone, marked with the craft’s most prestigious awards ceremony, The Oscars.  It’s an awesome occasion every year to celebrate the best work in cinema in the past year, and watch the Academy voters miss the mark everywhere on wins after botching nods in the first place.

I’m a little cynical, but not too cynical to enjoy all the pomp and circumstance or get unnecessarily excited when a favorite gets a win and gets their chance to celebrate on stage.
Before I jump into my reactions, it’s also important to note that this was the year the Academy’s consistent snubbing of black artists’ work came to a head, with many high profile black celebrities deciding to boycott the awards.  With #OscarsSoWhite trending on Twitter, host Chris Rock was left steering the show amidst the controversy.  He came out swinging, hitting the controversy head on, and filling the room with gloriously nervous laughter from the, I’ll say *dramatically*, nearly-all white audience.  Hopefully, the Academy voters wake up to the world they live in.

So, without further ado, here’s A.J.’s rating of the winners and losers from the 88th Academy Awards:

###Mad Max is awesome, and deserves all the awards it earned.

*Mad Max: Fury Road* won awards for Best Makeup, Costume Design, Sound Mixing, Sound Editing, Film Editing, and Production Design, racking up a grand total of six awards for the most won of the night.  I think Mad Max was one of the best, most impressive films of this past year, and definitely deserved the recognition it got.  My only grumble is that it swept all the least exciting, most technical awards of the night, like the Academy wanted to make a point about its quality while letting it remain out of the limelight of the *real* awards.  This might be the cynicism talking though, I’m very happy for their well deserved wins.

###Lubezki wins his THIRD statue in a row for Best Cinematography, as I weep for Roger Deakins.

Emmanuel Lubezki is a supremely skilled DP and *The Revenant* was definitely one of the most beautiful films of the year.  His cinematography is always mind-blowingly beautiful, and his technical and artistic aptitude deserves to be cherished.  His style also sort of sets him up for this award, because I feel like even people who don’t put a premium on cinematography when watching films can always spot his dramatic, overt approach to filming.

I’m setting this up because I am very torn as well.  Roger Deakins was also nominated for Best Cinematography this year for his work on Sicario which was a solid film that would have been forgettable if not for his work.  Roger Deakins has been nominated **thirteen** times for his work between 1994 and 2015, and has *never won*.  If you’ve ever seen any of his work you would understand and be as outraged as I am.

TL;DR:  Happy for Lubezki, but the systematic snubbing of Roger Deakins is *criminal*.

###Tom Hardy was the best supporting actor, Mark Rylance won instead

When they announced Mark Rylance for best supporting actor I’m sure everyone heard Ruffalo.  I mean besides the simple name similarity Mark Ruffalo’s performance in Spotlight was one of the best in the ensemble, whereas Rylance’s performance in Bridge of Spies barely warranted a second thought.  His character in the film may have been memorable but mostly because he was just likeable, in a film full of very forgettable characters.  Most of the credit probably goes to Joel & Ethan Coen’s writing rather than Rylance’s approach at the character.  I don’t really understand it.

Tom Hardy was by far my pick for this year.  His performance in The Revenant was a major highlight of the movie.  Leo ended up winning Best Actor – and likely deserved to – but in my eyes Hardy’s performance was the standout in that film.

###Iñárritu won his second consecutive Best Director award

I don’t really know what to think here.  I would have liked to see George Miller over Iñárritu probably.

###Best Actor & Actress

The Academy did alright with these picks in my eyes.  Brie Larson was the favorite going in and I’m happy she won.  She’s got likeability to her celebrity without the abrasiveness of Jennifer Lawrence’s dominance the last few years.

And, of course, Leonardo DiCaprio finally won his little gold man.  It was a long time coming.  I agree with his win this year, although I still think his first victory should have been Best Supporting Actor for his role in Django Unchained.  I’m not ecstatic, but I’m satisfied.

###The Rest

The rest was the rest, I have no complaints.  After all the ups and downs, including major Academy pitfalls, it was a fun experience.  I’ll begrudgingly be back next year, on the seat of my chair for every announcement.

Now time to catch up on the first promising films of 2016!  *Hail, Caesar!* and *Deadpool* here I come!
